Air pollution is one of the most dangerous forms of pollution. A biological, chemical, and physical alteration of the air occurs when smoke, dust, and any harmful gases enter into the atmosphere and make it difficult for all living beings to survive as the air becomes contaminated. Burning of fossil fuels, agriculture related activities, mining operations, exhaust from industries and factories, and household cleaning products entail air pollution. People release a huge amount of chemical substances in the air every day. The effects of air pollution are alarming. It causes global warming, acid rains, respiratory and heart problems, and eutrophication. A lot of wildlife species are forced to change their habitat in order to survive.

Soil pollution occurs when the presence of pollutants, contaminants, and toxic chemicals in the soil is in high concentration that has negative effect on wildlife, plants, humans, and ground water. Industrial activity, waste disposal, agricultural activities, acid rain, and accidental oil spill are the main causes of soil pollution. This type of contamination influence health of humans, affects the growth of plants, decreases soil fertility, and changes the soil structure.

Water pollution is able to lead our world on a path of destruction. Water is one of the greatest natural resources of the whole humanity. Nothing will be able to live without water. However, we do not appreciate this gift of nature and pollute it without thinking. The key causes of the water pollution are: industrial waste, mining activities, sewage and waste water, accidental oil leakage, marine dumping, chemical pesticides and fertilizers, burning of fossil fuels, animal waste, urban development, global warming, radioactive waste, and leakage from sewer lines. There is less water available for drinking, cooking, irrigating crops, and washing.
Light pollution occurs because of the prominent excess illumination in some areas. Artificial lights disrupt the world`s ecosystems. They have deadly effects on many creatures including mammals, plants, amphibians, insects, and birds. Every year many bird species die colliding with needlessly illuminated buildings. Moreover, artificial lights can lead baby sea turtles to their demise.

Noise pollution takes place when noise and unpleasant sounds cause temporary disruption in the natural balance. It is usually caused by industrialization, social events, poor urban planning, household chores, transportation, and construction activities. Noise pollution leads to hearing problems, health issues, cardiovascular issues, sleeping disorders, and trouble communicating. Moreover, it affects wildlife a lot. Some animals may suffer from hearing loss while others become inefficient at hunting. It is very important to understand noise pollution in order to lower its impact on the environment.

Radioactive pollution is the presence of radioactive substances in the environment. It is highly dangerous when it occurs. Radioactive contamination can be caused by breaches at nuclear power plants or improper transport of radioactive chemicals. Radioactive material should be handled with great care as radiation destroys cells in living organisms that can result in illness or even death.
Environmental pollution has negatively affected the life of both animals and human-beings. The only way to control current environmental issues is to implement conservation methods and create sustainable development strategies. We should find some effective solutions in order to restore our ecological balance.

First of all, we should make sustainable transportation choices. We should take advantage of public transportation, walk or ride bikes whenever possible, consolidate our trips, and consider purchasing an electric car. It is very important to make sustainable food choices. Choose local food whenever possible; buy organically grown vegetables and fruits or grow your own.

People should conserve energy. Turn off electronics and lights when you are not in the room. Consider what small changes can lead to big energy savings. Use energy efficient devices. It is also essential to understand the concept of reduce, Reuse and Recycle. Try to buy used items whenever possible. Choose products with minimal packaging. Buy reusable items. Remember that almost everything that you purchase can be recycled.

Conserve water as much as possible. Dispose of toxic waste properly. Do not use herbicides and pesticides. Use natural, environmentally friendly chemicals for your everyday chores.
Environmental pollution is one of the biggest problems caused by human activities that we should overcome to see a tomorrow and guarantee our descendants a healthy life.  There are many environmental concerns for communities around the world to address. We should always remember that pollution problems affect us all so each of us has to do his or her best to help restore ecological balance to this beautiful place we call home. Learn about the major polluters in your area to protect the air and water where you live. Encourage people to stop pollution, tell them everything you know about this problem, and protest local polluters together. The masses should be educated on the danger of different types of pollution. People should know everything about all consequences of the environmental pollution in order to prevent the worst from happening. Let`s protect the water we drink, the air we breathe, and the soil we use to grow our food.
